doc/API.md, before:

# Fast Forum Backend – API Documentation

The forum software uses UTF-8 for encoding text. 
Unless otherwise specified, the request parameters need to be valid UTF-8 strings (without BOM).

Parameters provided as part of the URL, unless otherwise specified, are mandatory.

Parameters provided as query strings are optional.

> Note: URLs and query strings are case insensitive.

## Authentication

_Coming soon_

## Users

### GET /users

Returns a page of registered users.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastseen`, `threadcount`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /users/online

Returns the users that have recently accessed the application.

### GET /users/id/`userid`

Returns a user, searching by id.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### GET /users/name/`name`

Returns a user, searching by name.

`name` – the name of the user to find.

### POST /users

Creates a new user.

Request body – the name of the new user.

### DELETE /users/`userid`

Deletes a user.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /users/name/`userid`

Updates a user's name.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### PUT /users/info/`userid`

Updates a user's info.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new info.

### PUT /users/title/`userid`

Updates a user's title.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new title.

### PUT /users/signature/`userid`

Updates a user's signature.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new signature.

### GET /users/logo/`userid`

Returns a user's logo (binary).

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /users/logo/`userid`

Updates a user's logo.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new logo in binary format.

### DELETE /users/logo/`userid`

Deletes a user's logo.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### GET /users/votehistory/`userid`

Returns a user's vote history.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Discussion Threads

### GET /threads

Returns a page of discussion threads.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /threads/id/`threadid`

Returns a discussion thread with a page of it's messages, searched by id. 

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### GET /threads/user/`userid`

Returns a page of discussion threads of created by a user.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /threads/subscribed/user/`userid`

Returns a page of discussion threads to which a user is subscribed.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /threads/tag/`tagid`

Returns a page of discussion threads which have a specific tag assigned.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /threads/category/`categoryid`

Returns a page of discussion threads which belong to a category.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### POST /threads

Creates a new discussion thread.

Request body – the name of the new discussion thread.

### DELETE /threads/`threadid`

Deletes a discussion thread.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /threads/name/`threadid`

Updates a discussion thread's name.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### PUT /threads/pindisplayorder/`threadid`

Updates a discussion thread's display order when pinned.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new display order (integer).

### POST /threads/merge/`threadfromid`/`threadintoid`

Merges together two discussion threads.

`threadfromid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread that will be merged, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`threadintoid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread that will remain after the merge, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### POST /threads/subscribe/`threadid`

Subscribes the current user to a discussion thread.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /threads/unsubscribe/`threadid`

Unsubscribes the current user from a discussion thread.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /threads/tag/`tagid`/`threadid`

Assigns a tag to a discussion thread.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to add, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### DELETE /threads/tag/`tagid`/`threadid`

Removes a tag from a discussion thread.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to remove, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Discussion Thread Messages

### GET /thread_messages/user/`userid`

Returns a page of discussion thread messages created by a specific user.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### GET /thread_messages/allcomments

Returns a page of discussion thread message comments, ordered by the creation date/time.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|
 
### GET /thread_messages/comments/`messageid`

Returns a page of comments associated to a specific discussion thread message, ordered by the creation date/time.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /thread_messages/comments/user/`userid`

Returns a page of discussion thread message comments created by a specific user, ordered by the creation date/time.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /thread_messages/rank/`messageid`

Returns the rank of a discussion thread message relative to it's parent thread. 

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/`threadid`

Creates a new discussion thread message.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to which the message will belong to, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the message content.

### DELETE /thread_messages/`messageid`

Deletes a discussion thread message.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /thread_messages/content/`messageid`

Updates the content of a discussion thread message.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new content.

### POST /thread_messages/move/`messageid`/`threadid`

Moves a discussion thread message to a new thread.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to which the message will be moved to, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/upvote/`messageid`

Records an up vote of a discussion thread message by the current user.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/downvote/`messageid`

Records a down vote of a discussion thread message by the current user.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/resetvote/`messageid`

Resets a vote of a discussion thread message cast by the current user.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/comment/`messageid`

Creates a comment for a specified discussion thread message.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to which the comment is addressed, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the content of the new comment.

### PUT /thread_messages/comment/solved/`commentid`

Updates a discussion thread message comment, marking it as solved.

`commentid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message comment to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Discussion Tags

### GET /tags

Returns all discussion tags.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `threadcount`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### POST /tags

Creates a new discussion tag.

Request body – the name of the new discussion tag.

### DELETE /tags/`tagid`

Deletes a discussion tag.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /tags/name/`tagid`

Updates a discussion tag's name.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### PUT /tags/uiblob/`tagid`

Updates a discussion tag's UI blob.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new UI blob.

### POST /tags/merge/`tagfromid`/`tagintoid`

Merges together two discussion tags.

`tagfromid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag that will be merged, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`tagintoid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag that will remain after the merge, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Discussion Categories

### GET /categories

Returns all discussion categories.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /categories/root

Returns all root discussion categories.

### GET /category/`categoryid`

Returns a discussion categories together with it's child categories.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /categories/`parentcategoryid`

Creates a new discussion category.

Request body – the name of the new discussion category.

[OPTIONAL] `parentcategoryid` – a unique identifier of the parent discussion category, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### DELETE /categories/`categoryid`

Deletes a discussion category.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /categories/name/`categoryid`

Updates a discussion category's name.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### PUT /categories/description/`categoryid`

Updates a discussion category's description.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new description.

### PUT /categories/parent/`categoryid`/`newparentcategoryid`

Updates a discussion category's parent.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – a unique identifier of the new discussion category parent, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /categories/displayorder/`categoryid`

Updates a discussion category's display order.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new display order (integer).

### POST /categories/tag/`tagid`/`categoryid`

Assigns a tag to a discussion category.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to add, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### DELETE /categories/tag/`tagid`/`categoryid`

Removes a tag from a discussion category.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to remove, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Authorization Privileges

### GET /privileges/required/thread_message

Returns the privileges levels required for actions relating to a specific discussion thread message.

### GET /privileges/assigned/thread_message

Returns the privileges levels assigned to a specific discussion thread message.

### GET /privileges/required/thread

Returns the privileges levels required for actions relating to a specific discussion thread.

### GET /privileges/assigned/thread

Returns the privileges levels assigned to a specific discussion thread.

### GET /privileges/required/tag

Returns the privileges levels required for actions relating to a specific discussion tag.

### GET /privileges/assigned/tag

Returns the privileges levels assigned to a specific discussion tag.

### GET /privileges/required/category

Returns the privileges levels required for actions relating to a specific discussion category.

### GET /privileges/assigned/category

Returns the privileges levels assigned to a specific discussion category.

### GET /privileges/forum_wide/current_user

Returns the forum-wide privileges levels assigned to the current user.

### GET /privileges/required/forum_wide

Returns the privileges levels required for forum-wide actions.

### GET /privileges/defaults/forum_wide

Returns forum-wide default privilege levels that are granted in specific circumstances. 

### GET /privileges/assigned/forum_wide

Returns all forum-wide assigned privilege levels.

### GET /privileges/assigned/user

Returns all privilege levels assigned to a specific user.

### POST /privileges/thread_message/required/thread_message

Updates the required level for a discussion thread message privilege on a discussion thread message. 

### POST /privileges/thread_message/required/thread

Updates the required level for a discussion thread message privilege on a discussion thread. 

### POST /privileges/thread/required/thread

Updates the required level for a discussion thread privilege on a discussion thread. 

### POST /privileges/thread_message/required/tag

Updates the required level for a discussion thread message privilege on a discussion tag. 

### POST /privileges/thread/required/tag

Updates the required level for a discussion thread privilege on a discussion tag. 

### POST /privileges/tag/required/tag

Updates the required level for a discussion tag privilege on a discussion tag. 

### POST /privileges/category/required/category

Updates the required level for a discussion category privilege on a discussion category. 

### POST /privileges/thread_message/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a discussion thread message privilege. 

### POST /privileges/thread/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a discussion thread privilege. 

### POST /privileges/tag/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a discussion tag privilege. 

### POST /privileges/category/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a discussion category privilege. 

### POST /privileges/forum_wide/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a forum-wide privilege. 

### POST /privileges/forum_wide/defaults/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide default privilege levels that are granted in specific circumstances.

### POST /privileges/thread_message/assign

Assigns a privilege level to a discussion thread message for the current user.

### POST /privileges/thread/assign

Assigns a privilege level to a discussion thread for the current user.

### POST /privileges/tag/assign

Assigns a privilege level to a discussion tag for the current user.

### POST /privileges/category/assign

Assigns a privilege level to a discussion category for the current user.

### POST /privileges/forum_wide/assign

Assigns a forum-wide privilege level for the current user.

## Metrics & Statistics

### GET /metrics/version

Returns the current application version.

### GET /statistics/entitycount

Returns the number of: users, discussion threads, discussion thread messages, discussion tags and discussion categories.

Commit message:

Added GET /thread_messages/latest

doc/API.md, after:

# Fast Forum Backend – API Documentation

The forum software uses UTF-8 for encoding text. 
Unless otherwise specified, the request parameters need to be valid UTF-8 strings (without BOM).

Parameters provided as part of the URL, unless otherwise specified, are mandatory.

Parameters provided as query strings are optional.

> Note: URLs and query strings are case insensitive.

## Authentication

_Coming soon_

## Users

### GET /users

Returns a page of registered users.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastseen`, `threadcount`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /users/online

Returns the users that have recently accessed the application.

### GET /users/id/`userid`

Returns a user, searching by id.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### GET /users/name/`name`

Returns a user, searching by name.

`name` – the name of the user to find.

### POST /users

Creates a new user.

Request body – the name of the new user.

### DELETE /users/`userid`

Deletes a user.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /users/name/`userid`

Updates a user's name.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### PUT /users/info/`userid`

Updates a user's info.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new info.

### PUT /users/title/`userid`

Updates a user's title.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new title.

### PUT /users/signature/`userid`

Updates a user's signature.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new signature.

### GET /users/logo/`userid`

Returns a user's logo (binary).

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /users/logo/`userid`

Updates a user's logo.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new logo in binary format.

### DELETE /users/logo/`userid`

Deletes a user's logo.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### GET /users/votehistory/`userid`

Returns a user's vote history.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Discussion Threads

### GET /threads

Returns a page of discussion threads.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /threads/id/`threadid`

Returns a discussion thread with a page of it's messages, searched by id. 

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### GET /threads/user/`userid`

Returns a page of discussion threads of created by a user.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /threads/subscribed/user/`userid`

Returns a page of discussion threads to which a user is subscribed.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /threads/tag/`tagid`

Returns a page of discussion threads which have a specific tag assigned.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /threads/category/`categoryid`

Returns a page of discussion threads which belong to a category.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `created`, `lastupdated`, `latestmessagecreated`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### POST /threads

Creates a new discussion thread.

Request body – the name of the new discussion thread.

### DELETE /threads/`threadid`

Deletes a discussion thread.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /threads/name/`threadid`

Updates a discussion thread's name.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### PUT /threads/pindisplayorder/`threadid`

Updates a discussion thread's display order when pinned.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new display order (integer).

### POST /threads/merge/`threadfromid`/`threadintoid`

Merges together two discussion threads.

`threadfromid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread that will be merged, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`threadintoid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread that will remain after the merge, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### POST /threads/subscribe/`threadid`

Subscribes the current user to a discussion thread.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /threads/unsubscribe/`threadid`

Unsubscribes the current user from a discussion thread.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /threads/tag/`tagid`/`threadid`

Assigns a tag to a discussion thread.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to add, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### DELETE /threads/tag/`tagid`/`threadid`

Removes a tag from a discussion thread.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to remove, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Discussion Thread Messages

### GET /thread_messages/user/`userid`

Returns a page of discussion thread messages created by a specific user.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### GET /thread_messages/latest

Returns a page of the most recently created discussion thread messages.

### GET /thread_messages/allcomments

Returns a page of discussion thread message comments, ordered by the creation date/time.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|
 
### GET /thread_messages/comments/`messageid`

Returns a page of comments associated to a specific discussion thread message, ordered by the creation date/time.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /thread_messages/comments/user/`userid`

Returns a page of discussion thread message comments created by a specific user, ordered by the creation date/time.

`userid` – a unique identifier of the user to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|Page|Query String|Zero-based page number|0|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /thread_messages/rank/`messageid`

Returns the rank of a discussion thread message relative to it's parent thread. 

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/`threadid`

Creates a new discussion thread message.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to which the message will belong to, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the message content.

### DELETE /thread_messages/`messageid`

Deletes a discussion thread message.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /thread_messages/content/`messageid`

Updates the content of a discussion thread message.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new content.

### POST /thread_messages/move/`messageid`/`threadid`

Moves a discussion thread message to a new thread.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`threadid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread to which the message will be moved to, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/upvote/`messageid`

Records an up vote of a discussion thread message by the current user.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/downvote/`messageid`

Records a down vote of a discussion thread message by the current user.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/resetvote/`messageid`

Resets a vote of a discussion thread message cast by the current user.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /thread_messages/comment/`messageid`

Creates a comment for a specified discussion thread message.

`messageid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message to which the comment is addressed, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the content of the new comment.

### PUT /thread_messages/comment/solved/`commentid`

Updates a discussion thread message comment, marking it as solved.

`commentid` – a unique identifier of the discussion thread message comment to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Discussion Tags

### GET /tags

Returns all discussion tags.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `threadcount`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### POST /tags

Creates a new discussion tag.

Request body – the name of the new discussion tag.

### DELETE /tags/`tagid`

Deletes a discussion tag.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /tags/name/`tagid`

Updates a discussion tag's name.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### PUT /tags/uiblob/`tagid`

Updates a discussion tag's UI blob.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new UI blob.

### POST /tags/merge/`tagfromid`/`tagintoid`

Merges together two discussion tags.

`tagfromid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag that will be merged, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`tagintoid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag that will remain after the merge, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Discussion Categories

### GET /categories

Returns all discussion categories.

|Parameter|Type|Description|Default|
|----|:----:|----|:----:|
|OrderBy|Query String|One of: `name`, `messagecount`|`name`|
|Sort|Query String|One of: `ascending`, `descending`|`ascending`|

### GET /categories/root

Returns all root discussion categories.

### GET /category/`categoryid`

Returns a discussion categories together with it's child categories.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### POST /categories/`parentcategoryid`

Creates a new discussion category.

Request body – the name of the new discussion category.

[OPTIONAL] `parentcategoryid` – a unique identifier of the parent discussion category, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### DELETE /categories/`categoryid`

Deletes a discussion category.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /categories/name/`categoryid`

Updates a discussion category's name.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new name.

### PUT /categories/description/`categoryid`

Updates a discussion category's description.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new description.

### PUT /categories/parent/`categoryid`/`newparentcategoryid`

Updates a discussion category's parent.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – a unique identifier of the new discussion category parent, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### PUT /categories/displayorder/`categoryid`

Updates a discussion category's display order.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

Request body – the new display order (integer).

### POST /categories/tag/`tagid`/`categoryid`

Assigns a tag to a discussion category.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to add, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

### DELETE /categories/tag/`tagid`/`categoryid`

Removes a tag from a discussion category.

`tagid` – a unique identifier of the discussion tag to remove, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

`categoryid` – a unique identifier of the discussion category to find, e.g. `00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff`.

## Authorization Privileges

### GET /privileges/required/thread_message

Returns the privileges levels required for actions relating to a specific discussion thread message.

### GET /privileges/assigned/thread_message

Returns the privileges levels assigned to a specific discussion thread message.

### GET /privileges/required/thread

Returns the privileges levels required for actions relating to a specific discussion thread.

### GET /privileges/assigned/thread

Returns the privileges levels assigned to a specific discussion thread.

### GET /privileges/required/tag

Returns the privileges levels required for actions relating to a specific discussion tag.

### GET /privileges/assigned/tag

Returns the privileges levels assigned to a specific discussion tag.

### GET /privileges/required/category

Returns the privileges levels required for actions relating to a specific discussion category.

### GET /privileges/assigned/category

Returns the privileges levels assigned to a specific discussion category.

### GET /privileges/forum_wide/current_user

Returns the forum-wide privileges levels assigned to the current user.

### GET /privileges/required/forum_wide

Returns the privileges levels required for forum-wide actions.

### GET /privileges/defaults/forum_wide

Returns forum-wide default privilege levels that are granted in specific circumstances. 

### GET /privileges/assigned/forum_wide

Returns all forum-wide assigned privilege levels.

### GET /privileges/assigned/user

Returns all privilege levels assigned to a specific user.

### POST /privileges/thread_message/required/thread_message

Updates the required level for a discussion thread message privilege on a discussion thread message. 

### POST /privileges/thread_message/required/thread

Updates the required level for a discussion thread message privilege on a discussion thread. 

### POST /privileges/thread/required/thread

Updates the required level for a discussion thread privilege on a discussion thread. 

### POST /privileges/thread_message/required/tag

Updates the required level for a discussion thread message privilege on a discussion tag. 

### POST /privileges/thread/required/tag

Updates the required level for a discussion thread privilege on a discussion tag. 

### POST /privileges/tag/required/tag

Updates the required level for a discussion tag privilege on a discussion tag. 

### POST /privileges/category/required/category

Updates the required level for a discussion category privilege on a discussion category. 

### POST /privileges/thread_message/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a discussion thread message privilege. 

### POST /privileges/thread/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a discussion thread privilege. 

### POST /privileges/tag/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a discussion tag privilege. 

### POST /privileges/category/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a discussion category privilege. 

### POST /privileges/forum_wide/required/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide required level for a forum-wide privilege. 

### POST /privileges/forum_wide/defaults/forum_wide

Updates the forum-wide default privilege levels that are granted in specific circumstances.

### POST /privileges/thread_message/assign

Assigns a privilege level to a discussion thread message for the current user.

### POST /privileges/thread/assign

Assigns a privilege level to a discussion thread for the current user.

### POST /privileges/tag/assign

Assigns a privilege level to a discussion tag for the current user.

### POST /privileges/category/assign

Assigns a privilege level to a discussion category for the current user.

### POST /privileges/forum_wide/assign

Assigns a forum-wide privilege level for the current user.

## Metrics & Statistics

### GET /metrics/version

Returns the current application version.

### GET /statistics/entitycount

Returns the number of: users, discussion threads, discussion thread messages, discussion tags and discussion categories.
